# AdvancedGallery

# CRUD
## CREATE
The first step of the project is to make the gallery by adding in the pictures which are stored on the device. The picture will have a title and description to distinguish them in the gallery. An option of adding a picture is present but will not be added unless a title or description is included. The user will be prompted and navigated to the storage application on the android device to choose a specific image to be added into the gallery. The initial/start-up screen can be seen below showing the name of my application and the buttons on right top corner.
I have chosen the complementary colours of dark green (#228B22) and white (#FFFFFF) as the layout  to show a simple presentation of my application. The buttons are simple and clear to see as it includes text to help the user navigate through the given activity. When a picture is selected from the file directory on the android device, it will then appear on the image icon, replacing it with the added image. There is a slight problem when adding a certain image onto the gallery. It can only add certain types of files such as JPG, PNG, and JPEG, also the size of the image has a limitation to the overall display of the screen. The application also supports landscape mode as well.
## READ
The next step is to read the pictures added into the gallery, which is technically the image displaying on the main screen with some text to accompany it. Acquiring the images from the storage file is also part of the read functionality, as the application will search for an item within its database. Like mentioned earlier in the create function, the image is then moved to the main activity where the user can then see their pictures.
## UPDATE
Changing the information of the data is the next step. The important aspect of a gallery app is to allow the user to modify the images and text within the application. The displayed option ‘CHANGE AN IMAGE’ is the update function of this gallery application. The user is able to change the existing photo, title and description to something else fitting and if the user does not like to keep the image anymore, it can be deleted with the bin icon on the top right-hand screen that is also accompanied with a cancel button just in case the user does not want to make any changes. Once the whole picture is changed, the main activity will be displayed with the new image chosen from the directory.
## DELETE
The final step of my application is probably the easiest out of all the other functions, which is getting rid of one or more imagess. As mentioned earlier in the update category, the user can simultaneously delete the pictures by pressing the bin icon on the activity. There is no option to delete the whole images in one go as I did not have the proper functions implemented and as a safety precaution, it is best to delete it on a separate basis so that the user can still have a second thought of whether the images should be deleted or not.
The process will restart again which is adding in new or existing images from the file directory (e.g. Google drive). There is also an option to go and fetch images from different folders if the image cannot be found in the storage application. This gives the user flexibility and more choices of adding more pictures in the Advanced Gallery App. The application can be pre-loaded on any android device by connecting it via USB and with the right software OS so that the application can be used anywhere and can even be spread around the world to try it out. 
# Conclusion
The whole project experience was difficult and interesting in my opinion. There were many errors and re-does as the coding input was case sensitive. I found Kotlin a very fun and interesting new language to learn, even though it was only introduced a few years back as Java is still the norm of this generation as kotlin will replace it soon. Using android studio was a pain since it demands a lot of power and memory, which my laptop can barely handle. In the end the practical exercises and research paid off by giving me product that I have developed by myself to further improve on when doing web application development or any software related jobs in the future.
